backend-guild-retreat.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: 2017 Los Angeles Retreat
---

# 2017 Retreat at Los Angeles Headquarter

Bellow you can find all the activities and the links to the pages with the detailed contents of every activity


## Declarative Services: Deep Dive

This workshop will guide you through all the Declarative Service fundamentals as well as through all the gory details. Do you know what a component is? How to configure it? Do you know how the dynamic binding works? All these concepts, and many more, will be covered in this workshop

[Workshop details](retreat/ds.html)


## Service Builder: Deep Dive

Service Builder is one of the most popular frameworks used amongst Liferay developers (internal and external). The goal of this workshop is to learn how you can build Service Builder applications. Defining your new services, consuming external services, configuring them, using a different datasource, … will be some of the topics covered here

[Workshop details](retreat/sb.html)

## Performance: A brief introduction

This is an unknown topic for many engineers. The goal of this workshop will be to introduce them into the performance world: how you can measure things, available tools, common mistakes. Once the workshop is done, you won’t be an expert, but, hopefully, we’ll provide you a good starting point in case you wanna/need to go deeper

[Workshop details](retreat/performance.html)

##  Machine Learning: An introduction

Machine learning is anything new, but it’s gaining a lot of traction nowadays due the advent of the Big Data world. We will try to do a simple introduction where we can learn the very basic fundamentals and what kind of things can be achieved.

[Workshop details](retreat/ml.html)

## Containers: An introduction

Containers are an extremely hot topic, and if you look around, they’re everywhere. In this workshop, using Docker as the overarching element, we’ll learn how this “new” technology works, what kind of scenarios this tech is useful for, or how we can deploy our applications using it.

[Workshop details](retreat/containers.html)

## Cloud deployments: A gentle introduction to AWS (2h)

Do you know how to deploy your apps a Cloud provider? Do you know how to scale them? Or how to configure a Load Balancer? Have you ever run a multi-zone database? These and many other questions will be solved in this workshop, and we will learn some of the fundamentals to be considered when we’re building Cloud Native Applications

[Workshop details](retreat/cloud.html)

## Java 8: An intro to the functional programming world

With the release of Liferay 7 we’ve finally moved to Java 8 (yay!). The goal of this workshop is to learn how we can leverage the new features provided by Java 8 which help us to write better code. But not only that, we also pretend to introduce you to the functional programming world, an old programming paradigm which is gaining traction nowadays (yes, we’ll talk about monads)

[Workshop details](retreat/java8.html)

## New programming languages

Not everything is Java out there. There’re hundreds of different programming languages available In this workshop we’ll learn the fundamentals of the Go programming language, how we’re already using it and why it is “popular” amongst many open source projects

[Workshop details](retreat/go.html)

## Security Tooling (2h)

Security is not a really know topic for many engineers. During the workshop we will learn how to use the tools we’ve built, what they help us to solve, and how they’ve been built. Hopefully this session will help us to get started into the security world.

[Workshop details](retreat/security.html)

Commit message:

Add the teams and future sessions

backend-guild-retreat.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: 2017 Los Angeles Retreat
---

# 2017 Retreat at Los Angeles Headquarter

Bellow you can find all the activities and the links to the pages with the detailed contents of every activity

## Teams introduction

The goal of this is that every team introduces themselves, show what kind of things they do, and what their plans for the year are

[Workshop details](retreat/teams.html)


## Declarative Services: Deep Dive

This workshop will guide you through all the Declarative Service fundamentals as well as through all the gory details. Do you know what a component is? How to configure it? Do you know how the dynamic binding works? All these concepts, and many more, will be covered in this workshop

[Workshop details](retreat/ds.html)


## Service Builder: Deep Dive

Service Builder is one of the most popular frameworks used amongst Liferay developers (internal and external). The goal of this workshop is to learn how you can build Service Builder applications. Defining your new services, consuming external services, configuring them, using a different datasource, … will be some of the topics covered here

[Workshop details](retreat/sb.html)

## Performance: A brief introduction

This is an unknown topic for many engineers. The goal of this workshop will be to introduce them into the performance world: how you can measure things, available tools, common mistakes. Once the workshop is done, you won’t be an expert, but, hopefully, we’ll provide you a good starting point in case you wanna/need to go deeper

[Workshop details](retreat/performance.html)

## A review of the year and planning the future

The concept of the guild has not been really enforced during this year, and we’re trying to fix it, but we’d like to discuss what we’ve done in this year, and what kind of things we want to achieve in the future

[Workshop details](retreat/future.html)

##  Machine Learning: An introduction

Machine learning is anything new, but it’s gaining a lot of traction nowadays due the advent of the Big Data world. We will try to do a simple introduction where we can learn the very basic fundamentals and what kind of things can be achieved.

[Workshop details](retreat/ml.html)

## Containers: An introduction

Containers are an extremely hot topic, and if you look around, they’re everywhere. In this workshop, using Docker as the overarching element, we’ll learn how this “new” technology works, what kind of scenarios this tech is useful for, or how we can deploy our applications using it.

[Workshop details](retreat/containers.html)

## Cloud deployments: A gentle introduction to AWS (2h)

Do you know how to deploy your apps a Cloud provider? Do you know how to scale them? Or how to configure a Load Balancer? Have you ever run a multi-zone database? These and many other questions will be solved in this workshop, and we will learn some of the fundamentals to be considered when we’re building Cloud Native Applications

[Workshop details](retreat/cloud.html)

## Java 8: An intro to the functional programming world

With the release of Liferay 7 we’ve finally moved to Java 8 (yay!). The goal of this workshop is to learn how we can leverage the new features provided by Java 8 which help us to write better code. But not only that, we also pretend to introduce you to the functional programming world, an old programming paradigm which is gaining traction nowadays (yes, we’ll talk about monads)

[Workshop details](retreat/java8.html)

## New programming languages

Not everything is Java out there. There’re hundreds of different programming languages available In this workshop we’ll learn the fundamentals of the Go programming language, how we’re already using it and why it is “popular” amongst many open source projects

[Workshop details](retreat/go.html)

## Security Tooling (2h)

Security is not a really know topic for many engineers. During the workshop we will learn how to use the tools we’ve built, what they help us to solve, and how they’ve been built. Hopefully this session will help us to get started into the security world.

[Workshop details](retreat/security.html)
